I guess a couple of the people that had as much
influence on my life would have been probably Bill
Amings, who ended up dying at a very early age, but
an outstanding patrol missionary. What was
outstanding about him? He cared about
people.
And even though he was tough and everything, you
know, being there with them, chop in one hand and
butcher in the other. And it sometimes didn't be
there way before we get there and have a whole board
just cut. And at that point in time, in petroleum
engineering, they really didn't have that many
good textbooks. And that resolved most of what
they gave George through handouts and so forth and
what they put on the blackboard. And the other one
was, of course, Bob White. And he's still there.
Describe him. He was a completely different type
of person. And I think he probably got a lot of ideas
maybe from Harold Vance who was head of the
department before Fred Stevens and then Bob
White. It just kind of hit the flame. I was kind of
like an old miner. I was just thinking, oh, I'll
just drill another foot and hit the mother load
down there. That miner's
going to chip another six inches and he's going to
rip the mother load. I think guiding, guiding. I
was into
direction, which we might take. At one time, I
thought probably I was going to retire, major oil
company, engineer, vice president, or
something. But after having been around him
enough, I finally realized that the only way you
really want to do it is to get out and do it on your
own. All right, let's go to some other, what
about any important
people that In chemistry, physics? Well, I had a
real interest in them. There were several
interesting professors. I think it's always fun
to talk about them. Like Muggles Harder. No, no,
no, no. It's Texas A&M. Texas A&M. Snuggs. Oh yes,
please share it with us. Every time you come in with
a grin, you hear, hello, thank you, thank you, you
know, this, that, that. You're just all so
enthusiastic. And then I guess you're
physically, that one's a quantity, but I believe
in physical chemistry, I think it's a little bit
harder. Oh gosh, you just never understand
what's going on. Maybe in a dirty shirt and else.
probably
hurt again. Now why was his shirt dirty? I had no
idea, but he just had that nickname. It wasn't that
dirty. He did it for some reason. Did you ever have
chemistry with John Beckham? No. Because I think
his nickname was Foghorn. He had a very strong
voice. Let's see, math?
I didn't have
the same type of feelings towards English as I did
the other day. Although I did find that it
just looked up. In other faculty, other
disciplines that you can talk about? I can't
remember the guy that taught us. I think it was a
book on the story of mankind, I believe. And you
didn't take any history, probably. State law
would be changed right after you graduated,
requiring six. I
took one for history and government. And that was
the only one I couldn't work in, so I had to do it by
correspondence with the dressing room. Let's
see, were there any, did you ever have any
interaction with John Calhoun? Was he?
I got there after. I read the 55. So he was there. Oh,
I'd love to. I'd love to. Still as bright as can be.
Still on the campus every day. His book is one of the
best reservoir books in the world. He's just got
the worst table of contents and index. Were there
any counselor, advisors that perhaps in the core,
MSC? Student life, housing? Well,
the reason I guess I'm here is because I'm a law
student, and I've always been involved in
politics, even though I did not run for an office or
anything like that. Since out of here, as a
freshman, I was a class president with President
Clayton, and was a student senator as a result of
that. I had
to be around
a lot of people
the freshman year that I probably wouldn't have if
I hadn't been elected to it. So I was around Wally
Moon. Wally Moon was the coach of the freshman
baseball team. I grew up in
a baseball
field, and on my way down there, I thought that I
could probably just walk up, you know, and see the
best player going. One of the last couple of guys
that was cut, but after about six or seven or eight
games, I ended up being cut off the team. And I
attribute that to my classmate, Joe Hargrove. He
didn't
lose a game in his senior year. He was like 16 or
17-0. He had a curve like he couldn't win. pitching
from the left hand side. I haven't seen
a curve like that. But anyway, I enjoyed the
baseball experience, the student senate, and all
of those types of things. As a junior, I learned a
handful. on
students
any time, when elected again, and ended up getting
on the welcome
committee. Bonkers Lane didn't recognize the
need for students to go out and welcome other
universities to Texas A&M campus. particularly
when I took him away from his
classes. I really enjoyed all that, but barely got
through third grade. I think all students had to go
through something like that. What was the
nickname y'all gave to Professor Samay? Oh, man, I
don't know. Later it would be Mom. I don't know
whether y'all called him Mom, but later they would
call him Mom Samay. I'm sure he's one of the finest
guys in the world. I said, where is he? He was one of
the hardest professors I have ever seen anywhere.
Did you ever have time? I outlined that whole book
before the final just to pass the course. But the
one thing he could have asked, I couldn't. But I
could derive anything to get the final. Did you
ever have a class with George Thompson, alphabet,
J.G.H. Thompson? Yeah. He was an M.E. great
teacher in the 60's. Yeah, I know. Let's see, other
advisor, counselor, student life, M.S.C., core?
M.S.C., M.S.C., and as a junior, I was a junior
representative. from the Petroleum Engineering
Club to the Engineering Council. We got to meet
with Dean Barlow. And that was a very enjoyable
time. I'll never forget going back At
the
time,
what was I, 18 years, 19, I guess, not very long.
Surely I would have been smarter than this. But
anyway, they've been talking about, at the
council meeting, it's all a lot of process. The
coding over there, the coding was due too long, and
they can't get to the other classes. So they're
working at it. The first patrol meeting here, just
ahead, monthly, at night. I'll get up. I'll call
you anyway next time. It was a junior
representative. The president conducts the
club. I asked the junior representative if he
wants to say anything. You know, they were saying
that the props are holding people too long. So if
any of you guys have trouble, just let me
know. Who is that guy? The senior year I was elected
as the president of the Petroleum Industry Club,
vice president of the client, student senator,
and a few other things. Probably if you looked
through the annuals, you'd see all this type of
stuff. MSC. Tell me what role it played in the life
of the student in your days. All of the meetings
that we had, the students hadn't met
over there all the time. I assume the problem still
does. The ballroom was there. I know we had some of
the smaller dances there. I was looking back there
and I saw, it's interesting, my wife, she's a fish
baller, she's a sophomore, she's a military
baller, she's a junior here and a senior there.
So...
Did you have any interaction with Wayne Stark?
Very, very little. I was chairman of the Muster
Committee my senior year. And as a result,
I had quite a
bit to do with the executive director of the
college students. Herbie? Yeah. Still going
strong. Yeah. Describe that muster. Where was it
held and what did you do? It was held on the steps of
the MSC. My first year it was held in that system
construction,
which is the Jack Williams building, if I can write
your name. It was held there. Late afternoon,
night, when? Probably about, it was late
afternoon,
about probably 5, probably 5, maybe 5.15, 5.30.
Who came?
Let's see, yeah, I had to get it. Four Star Channel,
Air Force. I saw something in the Aggie
just the other day. Something's happened, I
think, too. But who attended in the audience?
Almost all seniors were there, particularly in
the fourth. Did
it make any kind of emotional impression on you,
muster, at that point? Certainly not as an
impression.
But on and on, it got more important. I had not
only a roommate, but I also had another gentleman
who was killed in another outfit. In fact, I ended
up switching over to the artillery my junior year.
and I didn't want to let four years and then decided
two, so I ended up getting into Coastal
Artillery. Ended up going into the artillery for
two years and serving all of El Paso. Oh, Fort
Bliss. Taught electronics and radar
circumstances. I know of no city that has a more
positive relationship with a military
installation in El Paso's fields by Fort Bliss. I
don't believe that. What about silver caps? Where
was it held and what was done? Of course, I made two
of those as being in the unit
where the person had died and belonged to. And it
was in front of the academic building. Is
it still healthy? I would think so. Where were the
bugles?
Up there. And what did you and your classmates do
after did y'all
did y'all
react seriously
What role did silver caps and luster and things
like that, what role did those events have in
creating your feelings about the institution? I
think it all goes together. I think it all goes
together. You can't really say which one is the
most important. Certainly, certainly luster
right now. It was very, very big. I don't know
how I would
have felt if I had gone there and not been involved.
Probably not nearly as strong as I've been. Let's
see.
Football weekend, home football game weekend.
Describe a typical routine for you as a freshman.
It was just like almost any other
thing. You're right there with a sophomore in your
face saying, you get all freshman, you know. I
can't
hear
you. Then later on, a few times, my future wife was
going to one year to Kilgore Junior College and
then the rest of the time was at North Texas so it was
quite a ways off. She didn't have a car either so it
was a little difficult for her to get down there but
occasionally she'd come down which she did and we
absolutely had a great time. Now where would she
stay? She stayed one time at the AEMM and one time at
the MSC. Well, more than once in Tennessee.
Several times. Who paid her rent? Who paid for the
rent? I'm sure I did. So it was the young man's
responsibility? Oh, yeah. And she would come down
on the train? No, usually with another girl. The
freshman ball, her father brought her. She would
normally get there, win on the front, or center, if
it was football. I
don't remember it being over one night. I think it
was, you know. So she got there on Saturday. Yeah.
You do know that we had classes. Oh, sure, sure.
Saturday mornings. That's hard for today's
students to accept. And, you know, they still have
those. Yeah, they can't believe that. On the
football weekend. Sure, sure. One thing that was
interesting, before the ring dance, she did get
down the night before and I was really awaiting her
arrival because I needed her to type my evaluation
report, term report to Mr. Whiting, which was
quite lengthy. I can remember that We stayed up the
whole night
before the ring dance. So we were not quite at our
best the next night. Describe that ring dance.
Where was it? Out in the grove. Do you remember what
group played? No, yeah, because I had a partner
responsible, but we just didn't have a real good
pick. Fucked me all these years. Johnny Long.
Horsetown or something. I think it'd be the only
thing anyone's ever heard. What really bugged me
was that I was a usher the year before at the senior
ring dance and they had Ray Anthony. Oh, boy. Yeah.
And his bookends. Those good-looking girls. Oh,
wow. Wow. And who went to the ring dance? Just the
seniors. They, uh, any seniors. You know,
unfortunately we got no pictures. which we, in our
bedroom, you'll see the rain over here, the two of
us, a little younger.
And what if it had rained? Was there a fallback? I'm
sure it would have been the those days portion of
the MSC, but that is so small. Oh yeah. For some of
the smaller classes, that would have probably
worked out, but I don't know. I heard it started out
with over 2,000 in the freshman class, which at
that time was rather large. I think we ended up
graduating with about 7,000. At the ring dance,
describe what people wore. And
what
kind of conduct was normal? How did people behave?
Really pretty sane.
I don't remember anything out loud at all. Once the
dance was over, where did a young couple go
afterward to celebrate or anything? Well, that
just depends. There's all kinds of... I can
remember
a big group of us ended up at the Clay Pits. Have you
heard of the Clay Pits? Sure. And what would y'all
be doing at the Clay Pits? Well, what did young
people do at the Clay Pits at that time when there
was a group? I'm sure they were going to beer or
something. Just extend the party. And where did
y'all get the beer?
I don't know if it was in the Texan Drive-In or the
Triangle or over on Whiskey Bridge, whatever that
is. Describe what Whiskey Bridge was. It was on the
way to Austin, I think. Farm Road 60 going south.
Yeah, going south, yeah. And a place to go where you
get alcohol and beer. Did they have any student ID
requirement? Did anybody have to prove their age?
Usually we had somebody in there that we served or
something. So we started in 51 and we had quite a few
beds. If that wasn't the problem. If somebody
wanted to go somewhere and drink a beer, buy a beer
and drink it, where
do they go?
You know, I really didn't drink that much. That's
what I can call it. But usually I'm trying to order a
little Pepsi. It was almost all of it. Was hard
liquors going around? I don't know. This is the
check man named Hurdlecock down, I think it was Ed
Hurdlecock, down the old Weldon Road. Uncle Ed?
That's it. Uncle Ed. Uncle Ed. Yeah, where was
that? I've never made Uncle Ed, but it was on Weldon
Road. It was south of Kyle Field. All right, now
what did you hear about Uncle Ed's? Was it kind of
off limits or? I don't know.
But we didn't have addiction tickets then, or any
place like that. Let's make believe that you and
some of your buddies, or your date, that y'all
wanted to go eat off campus.
Well, one
of the places that we went, not necessarily on
campus, but just off, going away, and so on. And
there's different places. It was just out of
the University
that goes by the
hill. Yes, I want to say probably was located not
too far from the hill. My wife said that was one of
the first things the guys did when the girls left.
No. All right, did you and your wife-to-be get
engaged while you were still a student? Did it, by
chance, happen in College Station? No, it didn't
happen on the 31st
or
some of the 4th. Oh, OK. So I was going to ask. Let's
see, MSC, YMCA, were there any important events,
offices at the Y? Don't worry, but you know, I don't
think I ever, everything I did, I don't think I was
ever involved in anything at the Y. I was pretty
involved in the church there. Describe that. A
couple of years when I was there on the weekend, I
built there two, three, four times a week. I had a
student wife.
Now, were those high school girls or local? Yeah,
they were local.
And I presume you were a Baptist back home. Did the
church have an important role in your A&M Was there
help? Did it give you some strength? Oh,
absolutely.
Yeah.
You know you've got all the help you can get when
you're there, but... It's...
He was
a
student?
Yeah. Oh. Well, I think we played baseball
together. We also were in the college. Was there a
religious emphasis week in those days? Yeah.
Describe that.
I'm trying to remember
who, the different ones.
There's always a guy in the office. Looks like the
guy up there, but he didn't have to go. I had the,
after the first Memphis to Dallas one year, we had
Frontbrook Presbyterian in Washington, D.C.
And
then you break down into smaller groups, number of
local pastors and so forth. And we're discussing
that group. It's not really a study as it is. It's
what's troubling you and what you want to do, what
you feel better, that type of thing. It leads you in
the right direction. Now, were there some
counselor types that students could go to
throughout the year to just get advice? No, I'm not
sure. I was so involved in so many things, I really
didn't need it. Now, Old Faith Chapel wasn't yet?
No. It wasn't yet. David Martin
as president, living in the president's home. Oh,
that old frame house. Yeah. In fact, I remember
going there several times. Describe it. Not
a lot different from a lot
of the houses that I grew up in in Toronto. One of the
Do
you remember any kind of pranks or jokes students
ever played on the house or on the people who lived
in the house? Not even like the things I've heard
some other people do. I've not heard of them. No, I
have not heard of them. See, I was there.